Create a Compute Engine instance with the following details:

path :- In the Cloud Console dashboard, go to Navigation menu > Compute Engine > VM instances, then click Create instance.

task 1:

Fill in the fields as follows, leaving all other fields at the default value:

Field	Value
Name	lamp-1-vm
Region	us-central1 (Iowa)
Zone	us-central1-a
Series	N1
Machine type	n1-standard-2
Firewall	check Allow HTTP traffic

task-2 : Run the following commands in the SSH window to set up Apache2 HTTP Server:

sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get install apache2 php7.0  

when asked press Y


sudo service apache2 restart

task-3 : 

press the external ip and we get a successful welcome message

TASK 4:- Create a Monitoring workspace
In the Cloud Console, click Navigation menu > Monitoring.

Wait for your workspace to be provisioned.


curl -sSO https://dl.google.com/cloudagents/add-monitoring-agent-repo.sh
sudo bash add-monitoring-agent-repo.sh

sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get install stackdriver-agent

curl -sSO https://dl.google.com/cloudagents/add-logging-agent-repo.sh
sudo bash add-logging-agent-repo.sh

sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get install google-fluentd

// Create an uptime check

In the Cloud Console, in the left menu, click Uptime checks, and then click Create Uptime Check.

Set the following fields:
Title: Lamp Uptime Check, then click Next.

Protocol: HTTP

Resource Type: Instance

Applies to: Single, lamp-1-vm

Path: leave at default

Check Frequency: 1 min

Click on Next to leave the other details to default and click Test to verify that your uptime check can connect to the resource.

When you see a green check mark everything can connect. Click Create.


Create an alerting policy
Use Cloud Monitoring to create one or more alerting policies.

In the left menu, click Alerting, and then click Create Policy.

Click Add Condition.

Set the following in the panel that opens, leave all other fields at the default value.

Target: Start typing "VM" in the resource type and metric field, and then select:

Resource Type: VM Instance (gce_instance)

Metric: Type "network", and then select Network traffic (gce_instance+1). Be sure to choose the Network traffic resource with agent.googleapis.com/interface/traffic:

Configuration

Condition: is above
Threshold: 500
For: 1 minute
Click ADD.

Click on Next.

Click on drop down arrow next to Notification Channels, then click on Manage Notification Channels.

